Initial setup (#1)
mixxxdj/proposals: README.md

# Proposals

This repository holds all the past and current proposals for the Mixxx Software. It’s the single place for
reviewing, discovering, and working on the design documents. It is also a record of past decisions and approvals.

## Current Proposals

> * The [open PRs with the `proposal` label](https://github.com/mixxxdj/proposals/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aproposal) show all the pending proposals.

Author: @mixxx/developer could you please create the `proposal` label please?

Reviewer: Sure, but aren't all PRs proposals?

Author: I guess not. Some PRs maybe related to chores on the repo (like this one) or updates on previously approved proposal (e.g task list or status update, owner, etc...)

Reviewer: Done, and deleted all others.

> * The [proposals directory](./proposals) shows all the accepted proposals. See the “Implementation Status” for details on the implementation.

Reviewer: Some thought, for adjusting the workflow a bit. 

The workflow proposed here, does not allow to "publish" a draft and collaborate before it is ready. You will have a proposal owner, which may accept suggestions until the proposal is "accepted."  This makes it hard when you for instance have a good idea, but no interest or time to actually implement it. 

After merge, an Owner without commit rights is no longer "Owner" other may hijack the proposal. This will not happen if the proposal is developed in the Owners repository and is only reflected as a PR in this repository. 
 
Currently we don't have a workflow for "accepting" a proposal. It is implicit accepted once you find a contributor and a reviewer for it. Both may collaborate on a proposal. How can we model this workflow?  

I think a proposal should be also a place to sort thoughts. 

In the past we had design discussions along PRs which in turn required extra work. My hope is that a proposal avoids it.
This requires that objections a phrased early. How can we archive this? 

Any ideas how we can reflect these topics as well?

Reviewer 2: the PR process is how proposals are discussed and accepted.  When they are merged, the proposals are accepted

Author: I think the idea of the Owner here is someone who cares about driving the effort to make the proposal happen. It's isn't necessary the initial contributor (e.g cases where the original idea gets abandonned and re-openned by someone else, or case where one ask for a feature but doesn't have the time, knowledge or skills to make the idea happened).

This owner will help with:
- informing on changes on the initial plans, in case things gets adjusted after accepting a proposal
- facilitating contacts (e.g on Zulip)
- crediting the original effort on driving the change.

The advantage of writing down the owner(s) in the document is to prevent cases where the commit authors isn't the original author (as you suggested with a "hijack": this would likely lead to second owner being added, working in collaboration with the original owner, or replacing in case the former owners have lost interest in driving the feature.

Finally, "accepting" doesn't mean having the feature ready and implmented in Mixxx, but rather agreeing on making the proposal happen as time goes. For example, if the proposal repo was here at that time, the QML proposal would have already being accepted (merged) although the development effort is still ongoing. This is a way to say "Mixxx is committed to modernising the UI using QML". Does that make sense? Do you think further info  should go in the README.md?

Reviewer 2: @daschuer do you understand the process now or is the wording still confusing?

* The [PRs with the `proposal` label that are closed without merging](https://github.com/mixxxdj/proposals/pulls?q=is%3Apr+label%3Aproposal+is%3Aclosed+is%3Aunmerged) show all the rejected proposals.

## What’s a Design Document?

It’s essential to clearly explain the reasons behind certain design decisions to have a community consensus. This is especially
important in Mixxx, where every decision might have a significant impact given the high adoption and stability of the software and standards we work on.

In our world, no decision is perfect, so having a design document explaining our trade-offs is essential.
Such a document can also be used later as a reference and for knowledge-sharing purposes.

Design documents do not always reflect what has been (or will be) implemented. Implementation details
might have changed since a feature was merged. Design docs are not considered documentation and can not define a standard.

> Instead, it should explain the motivation, scope, decisions, and alternatives considered.

Reviewer: A design document shall describe the use-cases the proposal will implement and also the use-cases that are explicitly not included. 

It may also contain requirements and acceptance criteria of a derived Pull Request. This avoid feature creep and adjust the expectations during a review.

Reviewer 2: @acolombier I think this is a good addition

3. An automatic formatter is enabled in the repository. Use `make` locally to trigger the formatting of all markdown documents (requires a working Go environment). Use `make check` to check all links (will be done by the CI pipeline, too).
4. After a sufficient amount of discussion, the Mixxx team will try to reach a consensus of accepting or rejecting the proposal. In the former case, the PR gets merged. In the latter case, the PR gets closed with meaningful reasons why the proposal was rejected.
   1. To merge the PR, we need approval (consensus) from the maintainers of the related component(s).
   2. Optionally: Find a sponsor among the Mixxx maintainers to get momentum on a change.

Once the PR gets merged, the design document can change, but it requires (less strict, but still) a PR with review and merge by a maintainer.

## Credits

> This proposal process was largely inspired by the [Prometheus Proposal Process](https://github.com/prometheus/proposals)

Author: I took the liberty to credit Prometheus community for the initial effort. Let me know if you think it is inappropriate or insufficient

> This proposal process was largely inspired by the [Prometheus Proposal Process](https://github.com/prometheus/proposals)

Author: I took the liberty to credit Prometheus community for the initial effort. Let me know if you think it is inappropriate or insufficient

Reviewer: That' fair.

In our world, no decision is perfect, so having a design document explaining our trade-offs is essential.
Such a document can also be used later as a reference and for knowledge-sharing purposes.

Design documents do not always reflect what has been (or will be) implemented. Implementation details
might have changed since a feature was merged. Design docs are not considered documentation and can not define a
standard.
Instead, it should explain the motivation, scope, decisions, and alternatives considered.

A design document shall describe the use-cases the proposal will implement and also the use-cases that are explicitly
not included.

It may also contain requirements and acceptance criteria of a derived Pull Request. This avoid feature creep and adjust
the expectations during a review.

## Proposal Process

Don’t get scared to propose ideas! It’s amazing to innovate in the open and get feedback on ideas.

The process of proposing a change via a design document is the following:

1. Fork `github.com/acolombier/mixxx-proposals`.
2. Create a GitHub Pull Request with a design document in markdown format to the [proposals directory](./proposals).

>    Make sure to use the [template](0000-00-00_template.md) as the guide for what sections should be present in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Make sure to use the [template](YYYY-MM-DD_template.md) as the guide for what sections should be present in the
```

   document. Put the creation date (the day you started preparing this design document) as the prefix and some unique

>    name as the suffix in the file name. Once the PR is proposed, a maintainer will assign a `proposal` label.

Reviewer 3: it's not clear what the resulting file should be named. I assume `0000-00-00` is `YYYY-MM-DD`? Does it make sense to track? What date would that be, date of merge/acceptance or initial creation?

Author: From the README, it currently says:
> Put the creation date (the day you started preparing this design document)

I think that makes sense as it is a way to track how long the effort has been going on.

Reviewer 3: Ah, must've missed that. LGTM
